---
title: /SYNPOSIS/ Functional Micro-Organization of Primary Visual Cortex: Receptive Field Analysis of Nearby Neurons 
categories:
 - Neuroscience
tags: visual-cortex receptive-field neuron columnar-organization reverse-correlation phase-coding
---

## Research Objectives
Characterizing the responses of neurons in a multidimensional parameter space -> evaluate the amount of redundancy within the population code -> nearby neurons may provide highly redundant signals concerning the visual scene -> Knowledge of the micro-organization of response properties within a cortical column-> important implications for population coding of visual information

## Scope of the thesis work
Characterizing the responses of neurons in a multidimensional parameter space -> evaluate the amount of redundancy within the population code -> nearby neurons may provide highly redundant signals concerning the visual scene -> Knowledge of the micro-organization of response properties within a cortical column-> important implications for population coding of visual information

## Research Methodology and Analysis Results
Experiments were performed with adult cats and kittens at 4 postnatal weeks under halothane anesthesia and with other signals sources blocked. Tungsten-in-glass electrodes used to record the activity of single units from striate cortex and visual stimuli were generated by computer on monitors.
#### Analysis:
1.	Model-free analysis of similarity - to quantify the degree of similarity between RFs of two neurons, we compute a similarity index (SI). It shows show the same basic pattern for the two age groups. 
2.	Receptive field similarity and correlated discharge - the bicellular RF can be predicted by the overlap between the RFs of the individual neurons.
3.	Parametric (model-based) analysis - although two RFs are similar in other respects, the similarity index is low. We apply a parametric analysis that allows us to determine how two RFs differ.
4.	Clustering of receptive field parameters - preferred orientation is strongly clustered, with most data points tightly grouped around a diagonal line of unity slope.
5.	Analysis of receptive field overlap - for most pairs, the RF offset is less than one-quarter cycle (or 90°) of phase.
6.	Relative contribution of model parameters to pairwise differences in RF organization - a pair of simple cells that differ markedly in spatial phase.
7.	Spatial phase relationships: quadrature and antiphase - distribution of spatial phase differences for all pairs of simple cells.
8.	Binocular simple-cell pairs - exams binocular disparity that may contribute substantially to the similarity or dissimilarity between RFs of neighboring neurons.

#### Findings:
* How similar are the spatiotemporal RFs of nearby neurons? - Results show that RFs of nearby simple cells are seldom very similar, suggesting that there may be less redundancy in the population code than previously thought. 
* Which RF parameters are clustered within a cortical column? - The strength of clustering varies widely among the different response parameters. 
* When nearby RFs differ, which parameters account for most of the difference? - The single most important factor distinguishing RFs of nearby cells is spatial phase. 
* How do the above aspects change overtime? - Striate cortex is mature at postnatal age 4 weeks. 
* What are the functional implications of local diversity in spatial phase? - This diversity may permit efficient construction of complex cell RFs from simple cell inputs.

## Limitations and Opportunities
- Unable to distinguish columnar organization from other possible forms.
+ Clustering and topography; 
+ Correlated discharge and RF similarity; 
+ Development of the functional micro-organization of striate cortex; 
+ Clustering and response pooling


